Add documentation for installing MiniKF on AWS (#2368)
kubeflow/website: content/en/docs/started/workstation/minikf-aws.md

+++
title = "Deploy Kubeflow using MiniKF on AWS"
description = "Deploy Kubeflow with MiniKF (mini Kubeflow) via AWS"
weight = 40
+++

![MiniKF latest
version](https://www.arrikto.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/minikf-latest-version-aws.svg
"MiniKF latest version")

> This guide describes how to launch a MiniKF instance on AWS. MiniKF is a single
> VM solution on the AWS Marketplace, and installs:
> 
> - Kubernetes (using Minikube)
> - Kubeflow
> - Kale, an orchestration and workflow tool for Kubeflow that enables you to run
>   complete data science workflows starting from a notebook
>   ([GitHub](https://github.com/kubeflow-kale))
> - Arrikto's Rok, a data management software for data versioning and
>   reproducibility

Reviewer: Suggestions: 

- Added links to Minkube and Rok, rephrased a few things

```suggestion
This guide describes how to launch a MiniKF instance—a single
VM solution on the AWS Marketplace. Once deployed, MiniKF installs the following:

- Kubernetes (using [Minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/))
- Kubeflow
- [Kale](https://github.com/kubeflow-kale): an orchestration and workflow tool for Kubeflow that allows you to run
  complete data science workflows starting from a notebook
- Arrikto [Rok](https://docs.arrikto.com): a data management software for data versioning and
  reproducibility
```

Author: Will add links, thanks

1. Wait for a few minutes and the click on **Continue to Configuration**

   <img src="/docs/images/minikf-aws/minikf-aws-continue-configuration.png"
       alt="Continue to Configuration"
       class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">

1. Select a **Region**. We recommend you keep the default values for **Delivery
   Method** and  **Software Version**. Then click **Continue to Launch**

   <img src="/docs/images/minikf-aws/minikf-aws-configuration.png"
       alt="Configure MiniKF"
       class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">

1. Here you can review your configuration details. Don’t forget to view the
   **Usage Instructions** and keep them handy, as you are going to need them
   later.

   <img src="/docs/images/minikf-aws/minikf-aws-configuration-details.png"
       alt="Configuration Details"
       class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">

1. You can also select how to launch MiniKF or change the EC2 instance type. We
   recommend you leave the default value for **Choose Action**. We recommend
   that you keep the default **EC2 Instance Type** (m5.2xlarge) or choose an
   even more powerful instance. Choosing a VM with reduced specs may make it

>    impossible to train ML models.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if this is accurate, `m5.xlarge` should fill in training ML models tasks if there's no large workload. Can we help elaborate here?

Author: We've seen that the following tutorial demands more CPU/RAM than `m5.xlarge` : https://codelabs.developers.google.com/codelabs/cloud-kubeflow-minikf-kale-katib/#0

Reviewer 2: I see, it's because of Kubeflow installation rather than large workload. 

As long as customer want to install Kubeflow on MiniKF, they have to have more than 4vCPU, which is more than 1 `m5.xlarge`. Otherwise, some pods will not be able to get ready.

> 1. Go to the [MiniKF page](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/B08MBGH311) on
>    the AWS Marketplace
> 1. Click on the **Continue to Subscribe** button
> 
>    <img src="/docs/images/minikf-aws/minikf-aws-page.png"
>        alt="Continue to Subscribe"
>        class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">
> 
> 1. Click on the **Accept Terms** button
> 
>    <img src="/docs/images/minikf-aws/minikf-aws-accept-terms.png"
>        alt="Accept Terms"
>        class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">
> 
> 1. Wait for a few minutes and the click on **Continue to Configuration**
> 
>    <img src="/docs/images/minikf-aws/minikf-aws-continue-configuration.png"
>        alt="Continue to Configuration"
>        class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">
> 
> 1. Select a **Region**. We recommend you keep the default values for **Delivery
>    Method** and  **Software Version**. Then click **Continue to Launch**
> 
>    <img src="/docs/images/minikf-aws/minikf-aws-configuration.png"
>        alt="Configure MiniKF"
>        class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">
> 
> 1. Here you can review your configuration details. Don’t forget to view the
>    **Usage Instructions** and keep them handy, as you are going to need them
>    later.
> 
>    <img src="/docs/images/minikf-aws/minikf-aws-configuration-details.png"
>        alt="Configuration Details"
>        class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">
> 
> 1. You can also select how to launch MiniKF or change the EC2 instance type. We
>    recommend you leave the default value for **Choose Action**. We recommend
>    that you keep the default **EC2 Instance Type** (m5.2xlarge) or choose an
>    even more powerful instance. Choosing a VM with reduced specs may make it
>    impossible to train ML models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to the [MiniKF page](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/B08MBGH311) on
   the AWS Marketplace.
1. Click on the **Continue to Subscribe** button:

   <img src="/docs/images/minikf-aws/minikf-aws-page.png"
       alt="Continue to Subscribe"
       class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">

1. Click on the **Accept Terms** button:

   <img src="/docs/images/minikf-aws/minikf-aws-accept-terms.png"
       alt="Accept Terms"
       class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">

1. Wait for a few minutes and the click on **Continue to Configuration**:

   <img src="/docs/images/minikf-aws/minikf-aws-continue-configuration.png"
       alt="Continue to Configuration"
       class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">

1. Select a **Region**. It's recommended to keep the default values for **Delivery
   Method** and  **Software Version**. When you're finished, click **Continue to Launch**.

   <img src="/docs/images/minikf-aws/minikf-aws-configuration.png"
       alt="Configure MiniKF"
       class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">

1. Review your configuration details. Don’t forget to view the
   **Usage Instructions** and keep them handy, as you are going to need them
   later.

   <img src="/docs/images/minikf-aws/minikf-aws-configuration-details.png"
       alt="Configuration Details"
       class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">

1. You can also select how to launch MiniKF or change the EC2 instance type. You're
   recommended to leave the default value for **Choose Action** and
   keep the default **EC2 Instance Type** (m5.2xlarge) (or choose an
   even more powerful instance). Choosing a VM with reduced specs may make it
   impossible to train ML models.
```

Author: Active voice is the way to go. I wouldn't change it to passive. Please take a look at this post by @sarahmaddox : https://ffeathers.wordpress.com/2016/07/30/eliminating-the-zombie-vulnerability-removing-passive-voice-from-the-docs/

   <img src="/docs/images/minikf-aws/minikf-aws-instance-type.png"
       alt="Select Intance Type"
       class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">

1. Choose an existing **VPC** or create a new one. If you create a new one, make
   sure you click on the **refresh** icon to update the contents of the list, so
   that your new VPC appears in it.

   <img src="/docs/images/minikf-aws/minikf-aws-security-settings-vpc.png"
       alt="Select a VP or create a new one"
       class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">

1. Choose an existing **Subnet** or create a new one. If you create a new one,
   make sure you click on the **refresh** icon to update the contents of the
   list, so that your new subnet appears in it.

   <img src="/docs/images/minikf-aws/minikf-aws-security-settings-subnet.png"
       alt="Select a Subnet or create a new one"
       class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">

> 1. We strongly recommend to create a new security group. Otherwise you may not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. You're strongly recommend to create a new security group. Otherwise you may not
```

Author: Same here, I wouldn't change active voice to passive (https://ffeathers.wordpress.com/2016/07/30/eliminating-the-zombie-vulnerability-removing-passive-voice-from-the-docs/)

>    be able to access your MiniKF. To do so, click on **Create New Based On

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   be able to access your MiniKF. To do that, click on **Create New Based On
```

   Seller Settings**.
   
   ---

>    **NOTE**
>    
>    If you need to use an existing security group, **make sure it covers
>    the ports mentioned in the usage instructions** (see at the top of this
>    page).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   **Note**: If you need to use an existing security group, **make sure it covers
   the ports mentioned in the usage instructions** (see at the top of this
   page).
```

Author: I agree, will change. I just followed what other people to in their docs. But I think that your suggestion makes sense.

   ---
   
   <img src="/docs/images/minikf-aws/minikf-aws-security-group.png"
       alt="Create a new security group"
       class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">

1. Choose an existing **Key Pair** or create a new one. If you create a new one,
   make sure you click on the **refresh** icon to update the contents of the
   list, so that your new key pair appears in it.
   
   <img src="/docs/images/minikf-aws/minikf-aws-security-settings-key-pair.png"
       alt="Select a Key Pair or create a new one"
       class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">

> 1. Click **Launch**. You will then see a message informing you about the

Reviewer: For a11y:

```suggestion
1. Click **Launch**. You should receive a message informing you about the
```

   successful installation. The message contains a link to view the instance on
   the EC2 Console. Click on it.

   <img src="/docs/images/minikf-aws/minikf-aws-successful-deployment.png"
       alt="Successful deployment message"
       class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">

> 1. You should now see a screen like this. Click on the **Instance ID** of the
>    created instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. You should now see a screen like this. Click on the **Instance ID** of the
   created instance.
```

   <img src="/docs/images/minikf-aws/minikf-aws-ec2-console.png"
       alt="Instance on EC2 Console"
       class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">

> 1. You will then see this page. Click **Connect** to connect to the instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Next, you should be on a page that looks like this. Click **Connect** to connect to the instance.
```

   using EC2 Instance Connect

   ---

>    **NOTE**
> 
>    This will only work if you have created a security group based on seller
>    settings, as in step 10, or you have configured a security group based on the
>    usage instructions. Otherwise, you need to SSH to the instance manually, see:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   **Note**: This will only work if you have created a security group based on seller
   settings, as in step 10, or you have configured a security group based on the
   usage instructions. Otherwise, you need to SSH to the instance manually, see:
```

>    https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/AccessingInstancesLinux.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   (you can refer to [Connecting to your Linux instance using SSH](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/AccessingInstancesLinux.html).
```

Author: thanks! I will change to `please refer to [Connecting to your Linux instance using SSH](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/AccessingInstancesLinux.html).`

Reviewer: OK 👍 I'd also advise to check out what Google recommends to use when it comes to  "politeness": https://developers.google.com/style/tone?hl=en#some-things-to-avoid-where-possible

> Not recommended: For more information, please see [link to other document].
> Recommended: For more information, see [link to other document].

But these are just guidelines.

   ---
   
   <img src="/docs/images/minikf-aws/minikf-aws-connect.png"
       alt="Connect to the instance using EC2 Instance Connect"
       class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">

> 1. The **User name** will be prefilled. Click **Connect**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The **User name** will be prefilled. Click **Connect**.
```

   <img src="/docs/images/minikf-aws/minikf-aws-ec2-connect.png"
       alt="EC2 Instance Connect"
       class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">

> 1. Follow the on-screen instructions and type **minikf** to view the progress of
>    the deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Follow the on-screen instructions and type **minikf** to view the progress of
   the deployment.
```

   <img src="/docs/images/minikf-aws/minikf-aws-view-progress.png"
       alt="View MiniKF deployment progress"
       class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">

> 1. Wait for a few minutes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Wait for a few minutes.
```

   <img src="/docs/images/minikf-aws/minikf-aws-progress.png"
       alt="Wait for the installation to complete"
       class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded"> 

> 1. Once the installation is completed you will see this screen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Once the installation is complete, you should see the following screen:
```

   <img src="/docs/images/minikf-aws/minikf-aws-provisioning-completed.png"
       alt="MiniKF installation completed"
       class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">

> 1. Follow the URL and log in to MiniKF using the provided username and password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Follow the URL and log into MiniKF using the provided username and password.
```

Author: The spelling was correct here, see this link: https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/styleguide/tw/log_in_to.html

   ---

>    **ΝΟΤΕ**
> 
>    Note that MiniKF uses a self-signed certificate, so you will have to follow
>    this [guide](https://www.arrikto.com/faq/self-signed-certs/) to proceed to
>    the MiniKF dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   **Note**: Note that MiniKF uses a self-signed certificate, so you will have to follow
   this [guide](https://www.arrikto.com/faq/self-signed-certs/) to proceed to
   the MiniKF dashboard.
```

   ---

   <img src="/docs/images/minikf-login.png"
       alt="MiniKF login page"
       class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">

> 1. Once you log in, you will see the MiniKF Dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Once you log in, you should be in the MiniKF Dashboard like this one:
```
